---
layout: post
title: "Another version of the same thing"
date: 2016-11-16
---

**Disclaimer**

I have opinions and they are mine. All mine. These may or may not be the same as my employer. I may or may not deploy this into production. This stuff works for me right now and may or may not work for you. Also, since this is technology, this post will be obsolete in a day or so.

**Introduction**

I had this up for a short time and I've been teaching myself Jekyll. Here is this post again. There is the mantra of "patch early, often, and apologize." I generally follow this mantra. This works in most organizations. There are a few places I've worked where this mantra won't work and you lock devices to specific versions of things say till the end of a school year or until certain code is released or until that one piece of hardware decides to release and update (you know what I'm talking about).

In its latest release (9.93), JAMF announced Patch Reporting, a way to determine if every managed device had the latest version of whatever software title. Jamf just announced some new features that will be added into version 10 and that will likely change how this workflow works.

**Enable Patch Management**

Click on Computers Click on Patch Reporting Agree to the disclaimer Click on the "Plus" and select the software title from the list.

Click on Report to view the various versions of things. If there was an Extension Attribute, you will need to wait for all machines to submit an Inventory Checkin to get the machines versions.

Check the box to "show in dashboard". This will make the report show in YOUR dashboard.

Ok. Now that you have the report, assume that it is accurate. There is a bit of a lag with JAMF updating their lists. There are also other ways to get the same information. I'm aware of this.

**Make Smart Groups**

Once you have a good reporting, start making smart groups. You will want at least two. They are:

Patch Reporting: Software Title : IS "Latest Version" Computer Group: Not a member of: Software Title : is Latest versions There is a chance that some computers could be on a newer version with this logic. This also runs the risk potentially of an unexpected uninstall or unintentional rollback if an endpoint

With most software titles, an update happens maybe once a month. With others, the update style could be weekly (Adobe, looking at you).

You could use something like this to keep that from happening and do something a bit smarter with the smart groups: [https://gist.github.com/opragel/47e23d6084a5f5305180#file-ea_adobe_acrobat_dc_versioncheck-sh](https://gist.github.com/opragel/47e23d6084a5f5305180#file-ea_adobe_acrobat_dc_versioncheck-sh)

**Patch Automatically**

This logic requires you to trust the Internet.

Make a payload free package of the update script: [https://derflounder.wordpress.com/2014/06/01/understanding-payload-free-packages/](https://derflounder.wordpress.com/2014/06/01/understanding-payload-free-packages/) Make a policy that runs every week on the "Not a Member" smart group and have it run every week. This timing is.... an opinion. You could totally make this more or less aggressive. The things to make sure get covered are:

the payload free package / script / trigger. Whatever you have running Inventory checkin at the end of the policy. This is needed to make sure the computer gets removed from the smart group. The combo of the two groups.... you have one group with the goal of 0 (the out of date group) and the other group with up to date computers.

**Success?**

You shouldn't make everything in your JSS full auto. It is tempting and can be done. It also works. This type of logic assumes you trust every source. That said, I've only had to roll Firefox back one time. This type of logic is designed to help you get things off your plate (ie, Adobe Flash) so you can spend more time testing things for broader release in your org (say, Microsoft Office). Yes, there is a way to do this with Office.

Next Steps The next version of this blog will talk about modifying this to have Parameters. Thanks, [https://github.com/fauxserve](https://github.com/fauxserve).
